The Joe Rogan.
Experience. So at 19 I'm in this comedy club, Greenville comedy,
it's a black room. Chappelle is on stage and he's getting booed.
And his dismount of getting booed is something I've never seen before in my
life. It was fantastic. He's like, y'all, I'm gonna be famous.
<laugh> I'm gonna be famous.
Like he just kept saying that and then just walked off. And when he walked off,
I was like, I was like, oh my God, they booed him. Like in my head. I'm like,
if they booed him, I don't stand the chance in comedy.
Because like what just happened when he walked by,
nobody wanted to touch him cuz he had that, that, that bomb on him.
So even I like, yeah, Hey, Hey man. And he, and he
that's sweet bomb on stop bomb. Yes.
And he sits down in, in the, in the booth right here and I,
I just can't stop looking at him cause I'm watching, you know,
how they say the stages grief, like I'm watching the stages of,
and I keep thinking, why doesn't he leave?
And he's sitting there and Tony woods goes on stage next and Tony woods like,
wow man, God like just kind of a similar cadence.
And Tony destroys got a standing ovation like night and day.
And I I'm just 19, just new, like absorbing this. And I go,
what the just happened? Tony walks off stage. There's a comic.
I'm just kind of like dropping. Like I think I'm five, seven, but I'm six,
five, but I'm just trying to like look at what they gonna do next.
And they get up together and they walk out. I kind of follow 'em out thinking,
I don't know what's gonna happen to me, but Hey kid, you wanna hang with us?
I don't know. <laugh> they get in the same car. And, and it's like,
I think it was a hatchback. I'm not sure. And Tony drives off. I'm like, whoa,
they came together and I that's, that was all I knew of that,
of that relationship. And so, and I, and I,
I knew that Tony had been doing it a lot out longer and I knew that Dave,
it's kinda like how,
when Kobe came into the league and was talking like Mike and then Kobe leaned
into who Kobe was, became who yes. Speak, you know, I speak Italian,
I'm speaking Italian. I speak like this.
These are the things that important to me.
And so you watched Dave do that separate from, to Tony.
But what I love about what Dave did and this is why he's great is he had
he recognized Tony in his greatest like comedic moment.
Like it's the most honest thing you can do? You know what I mean?
Like most people would be like, I did this all me, but he was like, and,
and what he said about Tony could not have been truer. You know what I mean?
And so it just like touched my heart. Cause I was,
I was there at the epicenter when I was watching Dave figure it out.
So in the same way that a car rusts, uh, or, you know,
accumulates junk in the oil or whatever, similarly,
the human body does damage to itself. And again, just like a car, an airplane,
the human body is set up to tolerate a certain amount of that damage so that
we can get through to the point where we have kids before we start going
functionally downhill, whether mentally or physically,
but after that evolution doesn't care about us anymore.
And therefore we are only equip to tolerate that
much.
And eventually the damage that's being done accumulates to a point beyond what
the body's set up to tolerate.
And that's when things start to go wrong and we start to function less.
Well,
what is the difference physically between a younger person and older person in
terms of their ability to recover from the damage of just regular everyday life
and exercise and abuse and running around. Yeah.
All that.
So that's just one aspect of the difference between a younger person and an
older person. So let me answer that question by stepping back one step. Okay.
So the difference ultimately arises from what the body is made of at the
molecular level and failure level,
the body accumulates various changes that are chemical and by
consequences of what the body has to do to keep us alive from one day to the
next, even starting before we're born. And those changes,
the reason I'm using the word damage to,
to describe those changes is because eventually things don't work so well.
So you're quite right.
That recovery from injury is one thing that doesn't work so well,
but so are plenty of other. So whether it's how fast you can run, how,
how fast you can think, you know how strongly you can grip something, uh,
how fast you can walk. Um, you know,
all of these things become progressively less good,
but the point is that the amount by which they become less good is pretty
negligible until the age of 40 or 50.
It's only then that the clients start to accelerate.
So what do you do in your own life to try to mitigate that acceleration?
Yeah. I'm a really bad example of this for two, right? That's.
Crazy. But you're, uh, this is your business. So there.
Are two reasons why I'm bad at it. Okay.
The first reason is that I'm really well built. I'm just lucky.
I'm just one of those hateful people who I can eat and drink exactly what I,
and nothing seems to happen. And I don't even need to exercise to speak of.
And you know, I'm far biologically, far younger than I actually am.
Chronologically. How old.
Are you chronologically? Chronologically.
I'm 57.
How old do you think you are biologically?
Well, I'm told that I'm a, a good decade less than that.
And this is what I get told every time I do these tests,
which I've been doing for the past, let me see 18 years. Um, yeah,
so that's pretty good news. Um, so you're lucky. Yeah, that's genetically. Yeah.
But the other thing is, you know,
I'm working hard to Hasen the defeat of aging and, um,
maybe it's a net win, you know, maybe the amount that I'm hazing,
it is more than the damage I'm doing myself by, for example,
not getting enough sleep. <laugh>.
Here's what I understand about David go is the do stretch.
For two hours every night. But every night, every night.
I wanna know this routine. Like he, I don't, how could you stretch.
For two hours? He just does it. He doesn't have a job. First of all, he made,
I don't wanna say I'm sure. Yeah. I don't wanna say his numbers,
but he made an ungodly amount of money on his book and uh,
he doesn't even own a car. He goes,
I'm a black ju I don't spend no money on no car. So he runs everywhere.
Like his video <laugh> well, his wife has a car and, uh, he doesn't buy a car.
He isn't, he's not spending any of that money. Like, he's, he's the real deal.
Like, like he's not posing. That's that guy all day long,
24 hours a day, you know? And he's honest about every step in the way he goes.
Sometimes I get up and I just look at my sneakers.
I look at my sneakers for like a half hour. I don't do.
<laugh> I just sit there. I feel sorry for myself. Like,
I don't really wanna run, but then it's that? you. You're gonna run run mother.
And he goes, and then once I run, then I feel it. He goes, and then when I run,
I get mad at myself for not wanting to run earlier.
<laugh> so I run more like he's,
he's honest about like his vulnerabilities and his weakness.
He's honest about who he is, but it's also, there's no, no question.
He's gonna get everything done. Like he's, he's a complex individual.
And I think because of the fact that he's so honest about all that stuff,
it makes him even more intriguing. Like he's honest,
like all the pictures of him when he was drinking milkshakes and he was 300
pounds and yeah, he loves showing those to people. He's like, that was me.
He was, that was me. I was a fat. I was a fat. I was lazy.
He's like the first time I went running it, I ran like a quarter of a mile.
And I was gased out. I sit on the side of the road, like,
but do you believe like in that book, he thinks everybody has that in him.
Do you think everybody to not to that degree, man, cuz that book was insane.
Well, I think it, it depends. I mean,
everybody has that in him. If you choose to act the way he acts,
but a lot of that book is insane and you learn. Cause I read the book as well.
You learn from that book and the audio Bush book,
I would actually recommend over the book.
It's so good because in between chapters,
he talks about all the different things that happen and actually
elaborates in a more extensive way makes you go, holy.
Like his life was hell his father was a monster
and he did not have a happy childhood by any stretch of the imagination.
It was horrible. It was, he,
it was filled with torture and racism and strife and
struggle and he felt sorry for himself. And it was terrible.
But all those demons now he has those locked up
pushing the wheel. Mm-hmm <affirmative> you know that iron wheel at cone, dumb,
dumb, they're in his head now pushing his wheel. He's got those working for him.
Now those are, they work for him. What was your first deployment? Like? So.
My first one was with, uh, a team out in Hawaii.
I where we were doing submersible work.
So I drove like a 22 foot mini sub for <laugh> five years. Really?
Oh yeah. And uh,
we were doing some like waterborne activities and then how deep does it go?
That's classified.
Oh really? But yeah. Uh, it, it can go really deep. Yeah. But it's a,
it's a wet submarine. So we're on, we're on scuba.
It's all like you're you're in the water. Not just underwater. Oh really?
Yeah. So you're wearing scuba gear while you're piloting this thing. Yep.
So water gets in there. Yep. Whoa. It's.
Like a, you can probably pull up a picture of it.
Bro. That's a mind. a top of a mind.
SDV just being in a scuba is crazy.
But being in a scuba gear inside of a submarine with the door shut.
Oh Jesus Christ. So how much air you got in there? Enough. <laugh>
that's what I, it looks like there she is. Oh, that's nuts man. Fast the boat.
Oh, so it's like a convertible.
It. No, no, no. So, um, behind those dudes, yeah, those doors are sliders.
So you shut 'em so cuz it can drive relatively fast where like if you had 'em
open, like, it'd be like, bro.
That looks like something from a James Bond movie that doesn't even.
It is like something from a James Bond move. We that's crazy.
When we train in the daytime, it is bananas. It is wild to drive that thing.
I can only imagine. Cause you're landing on the back of a submarine.
It's 22 feet.
Long. Ish. I, I mean, that's what I recall.
They, that looks you can it's looks fake it. Like if I saw that in the movie,
I'm like they don't have one of those. Yeah. That's it? It does. Doesn't.
It it's like a human torpedo. Yeah.
That's what it looks like. It looks like a missile. It is it's pretty cool.
Wow. So that is wild. There's a ton of those things. Um,
that other countries have like they've been using submersibles since the first
world war, you.
Know? So when did they first invent sub Marines look the first.
World war. No, no, I think, I think the revolutionary war,
there was a guy that like paddles around in a, uh, in like a,
I've seen a Barrel's like a Oak barrel. Yeah. It's like crazy looking. Wow.
It's like, I'm just gonna go, well,
imagine the first gangster to climb into a metal Dick and slide it into the
ocean. Like I got this.
Even the guys that went to deep at us did it like in the thirties or forties and
no one's been able to do that again. Why they did in some like.
Weird. Yeah really? And they had a window.
It was like four inches across insane. Oh my God.
I think it cracked when they got to the bottom.
Really? Oh. Oh my God. You imagine what? Cause nobody did it before.
So it's all just calculations up this time. You actually get down there and.
Then, then you think like back to your question, how much hair do we got?
Oh my God. I.
Guess we have enough. Oh my God.